index.md, before:

---
layout: home
title: home
---
# Procedural and computational models of semantic and pragmatic processes

Workshop at the 34th European Summer School in Logic, Language and Information

University of Ljubljana, Faculty of Computer and Information Science

## Abstract
Procedural and computational modeling frameworks have been applied successfully to various aspects of semantic and pragmatic processes, yielding not only a good fit to empirical data but also insights of theoretical relevance. On the one hand, computational (e.g., Bayesian or information theoretic) models rationalize speaker behavior and explain how the listener can use the given information efficiently to infer the intended meaning from an utterance. However, these models often leave the stepwise processing of linguistic information unspecified. On the other hand, procedural (e.g., automata or ACT-R) models explain step-by-step cognitive processes behind meaning-related computations, e.g., the process of building sentence representations. However, they often lack the means to combine different information types in an interactive fashion. The goal of this workshop is to bring together researchers applying these two modeling methodologies to discuss their strengths and weaknesses and work towards an integrated approach.

![Ljubljana](https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/c/c8/Ljubljanica_01.jpg/1200px-Ljubljanica_01.jpg)

## Dates
- Submission deadline: 7 May 2023
- Notification: 1st week of June
- Workshop: 31 July -- 4 August 2023

## Invited speakers
tba

## Organizers
Sonia Ramotowska & [Fabian Schlotterbeck](https://uni-tuebingen.de)

## Programm Committee
tba

Commit message:

add affiliations, web sites and email

index.md, after:

---
layout: home
title: home
---
# Procedural and computational models of semantic and pragmatic processes

Workshop at the 34th European Summer School in Logic, Language and Information

University of Ljubljana, Faculty of Computer and Information Science

## Abstract
Procedural and computational modeling frameworks have been applied successfully to various aspects of semantic and pragmatic processes, yielding not only a good fit to empirical data but also insights of theoretical relevance. On the one hand, computational (e.g., Bayesian or information theoretic) models rationalize speaker behavior and explain how the listener can use the given information efficiently to infer the intended meaning from an utterance. However, these models often leave the stepwise processing of linguistic information unspecified. On the other hand, procedural (e.g., automata or ACT-R) models explain step-by-step cognitive processes behind meaning-related computations, e.g., the process of building sentence representations. However, they often lack the means to combine different information types in an interactive fashion. The goal of this workshop is to bring together researchers applying these two modeling methodologies to discuss their strengths and weaknesses and work towards an integrated approach.

![Ljubljana](https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/c/c8/Ljubljanica_01.jpg/1200px-Ljubljanica_01.jpg)

## Dates
- Submission deadline: 7 May 2023
- Notification: 1st week of June
- Workshop: 31 July -- 4 August 2023

## Invited speakers
tba

## Organizers
[Sonia Ramotowska](https://sites.google.com/view/soniaramotowska) (Heinrich Heine University Düsseldorf) & [Fabian Schlotterbeck](https://uni-tuebingen.de/de/110733) (Univiersity of Tübingen)

You can contact us via the workshop's [submission site at EasyChair](https://easychair.org/conferences/?conf=proscomps2023) or [email](mailto:prosandcomps@gmail.com).

## Programm Committee
tba
